what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose so today on
the channel I want to talk to you about
my favorite iPod apps that I use from
medical school ever since I've gone on
the iPod I've used it for absolutely
everything for lectures workshops
tutorials studying for my exams etc has
completely replaced pen and paper for me
if you're new here or you don't know who
I am my name is Nasir I'm a second year
medical student studying in London and
if you want to follow me on my journey
do consider subscribing to this YouTube
channel
alright so let's jump straight into the
hops so generally on my iPad I try and
keep it as productivity focused as
possible I try and keep all the apps
that I would need to use for medical
school on one page centre within quick
reach and quick access and between the
doc and this one page here it sums up
about everything I need for medical
school the first app that I want to talk
about is called c3 d4 and not to me I
think it's this app over here it's by a
company called 3d for medical and it's
just basically a fantastic and not to me
learning way that it works that along
the bottom row over here you can see it
has all the different body systems and
let's just say I want to add the
digestive system for now so I click plus
there you can see all the different
organs if maybe the greater omentum is
in my way I can remove it I can even
remove different parts of the large
colon to look at the structures that lie
behind that it has all the details and
it's perfect way to visualize the 3d
things that you see in the lecture or on
your handouts now another great thing
about this app is that it adds the
information on in layers let's say I
want to look at the arteries of the body
I go to the RDS and I click plus and the
first thing that it shows me is the main
arteries the most important ones in the
body as I continue to click on the plus
sign it gives me more detail and more
complexity so I'm not overwhelmed at any
one time of course you can click on any
of these structures and it will give you
a bunch of information about what it is
what if it touches to what surrounds it
etc etc and my last favorite thing about
this app has to be the muscle
visualization so you can add all the
muscles that you want to this app for
example last week we were looking at the
hip and thigh region for not to me so
we're learning about different hip
flexors let's take the iliacus for
example I can click on it and then over
here on the left under motion it shows
you animations of how the muscle works
in order to give you that function so
this over here is hip flexion by the
iliacus I recommend it to any
medical students it's not free but the
app is so highly polished and brings so
much value to my learning that I think
it's worth every penny now moving on to
the next app that I want to show you
it's called D key medics it's a very
popular app here in the UK for medical
students and it's basically like a
information center for all things oski
related for medical students and it
breaks everything down into really nice
categories so for example for my all
skis this year as a second year medical
student I know that I'm gonna have to
perform your analysis so if I click on
clinical procedures here and I scroll
down to your analysis it gives you first
and foremost at the top this YouTube
video which you can load and watch the
full procedure done in oski style and
exam formats that you know what it is
that you eventually need to look like
when doing the procedure and then if you
scroll down it gives you just the
information that you need to pass
through the AA scheme and if you go to
the website they also have more xscape
so me and my friends are actually using
this app now every single week to
practice different auskey stations that
we can learn and perform better for the
azan you might have seen a post about
that on my Instagram if you follow me
there if you wanna follow me on
instagram you don't already you can do
so hot karma medic so like I was saying
this is a perfect up for learning of
different oski examinations they have
cardio respiratory etc etc everything
that you would need to know the third
app that I want to talk about is called
Quizlet which is a flashcard app that
i'm sure you've all heard of when i
first started using flashcards not too
long ago I first looked at Anke but I
found that the interface was way too
bland and it just didn't make it a good
flashcard experience for me but when I
looked at Quizlet and I saw their
interface it really changed my idea
about flashcards so as you can see here
I have a number of different decks for
the different topics I was studying for
progress test two and focus test one for
example this drugs deck is full of all
the drugs that were mentioned in my
lectures for progress test two let's see
if I remember any please so some natural
is a long-acting wrongo that
bronchodilator awesome if Brett rope Ian
is also for asthma I want to say it's a
calcium channel it is a acetylcholine
agonist antagonist acetylcholine
antagonist I believe antimuscarinic okay
great good so it seems that I'm
remembering something use flashcards
that's good anyway you can take a look
at these other decks that have made for
example for cardiovascular disease once
I find that I understood a lecture quite
well I'll come into this flashcards up
and make flashcards
those details I just have to memorize
things that I'm having difficulty
remembering and it's just a great way to
test my memory went under the tube when
I'm on the bus or even at home studying
if you're someone who doesn't use
flashcards like I was up until about two
months ago I would highly highly
recommend them they're so so so useful
and add an extra level of good studying
tutor routine now the next app is going
to be a quick one this is notability
which is my preferred app for taking off
my notes for lectures it is an absolute
godsend for organization as you can see
here on the Left I have all the greater
topics or modules of a covering at the
year let's say for supporting life we
had to look at cardiovascular disease
and these are all the lectures on the
right for each one of those topics and
within each one I have my notes and then
underneath them my sort of condensed
notes on what I think is most important
what we're currently covering right now
is inflammation on immunology so these
are the lectures I was looking at today
for example lecture one here all of the
lecture slides and I'll make a
handwritten document called important
stuff which I'll write down pretty much
what I think is most important from that
lecture and of course I have a color
code in my head for what different
colors mean you can also copy paste
different lecture slides and then you
can write on top of them and it just
makes for a very good studying and
note-taking experience if you guys want
me to make a more in-depth video about
how I use notability to take care of all
of my lecture notes and organize all the
study but I do do leave a comment down
below now the fifth up is something
that's come very handy since I've moved
towards this paperless or more digital
style of taking notes at school
it's called scannable it's a very simple
app that simply scans a paper that you
have it's very useful in my tutorials
and workshops when I'm given handouts
that I don't want to write on with a
normal pen and pencil and I just want to
scan them and be able to import them
into notability so I can write on it
with my iPad but overall it's just a
really useful app to continue to be
digital and paperless and the last app
that I want to touch on is my e-reader
for textbooks and it's called inkling so
if you I have saved my Netzer and asked
me flashcards that I was using to study
in a previous lump that I did if you
guys haven't seen that video check out
somewhere over here so this electronic
version of the app is really useful
because it sort of Gray's out all the
structures that you don't need to look
at I also have this downloaded on my
phone and so I can study enough to be
able to go I'd also have here the
essentials of clinical
by Kumar Clark this is a perfect
accompanying handbook to the lectures
that I study it sort of gives me more
clinical based information on any extra
detail that my lecturer might have
missed out now the next app that I want
to look at is BM J's best medical
practice this is just a fantastic offer
up information about any disease you can
think of so let's say we search for
cystic fibrosis yeah there we go cystic
fibrosis and they'll give me all the
possible information I could want
history and exam investigations key
diagnostic factors everything it's a
very very useful
all right guys and I think that's it for
all the apps that I want to cover in
this video I hope you guys have seen a
couple that you might want to use for
your studying while in medical school if
you guys have found this video useful
please do leave a like on this video and
subscribe to the channel if you want to
see more videos from me you can follow
me on Instagram if that's something that
you're into as well and that's it for me
I hope you found this video useful and
I'll see you in the next one peace
[Music]